I am working as PLSQL developer in TCS. Our client is Vodafone India. I am working in MIS Team. I have completed OCE certification. 

CEO SMS - It is delivered to vodafone higher mgmt and it contains the revenue, recharges and other details for d-1 and we give the trend - FTD,MTD,LMTD. 
MOU,REV,Recharges

Ireporting
Push based reports in unix server

Procedures
packages

Base procedures - dblink and subscriber based tables are replicated
performance tuning

We work on work orders and demands for new report/sms development or changes.
First we check the feasibility and then we give the implementation date. Every thursday and friday we have RFC except last week of the month.  There is new report implementation and also existing report modification, change in logic. We identify the reports by execution time and take up 2 reports every week

SLA and alerts

What changes were made last week - 
Pre-D04 Recharge New - implemented for 10 circles


Challenging task:
DB Links, Flex

Critical issues
RAJ new sms
KOL new report
Tuning of CHN circle ceo sms.
change in logic for bucket balance


There are 4 dumps - RCHG,CDR,SUBS,OFFER
Subs based tables - cm-subs, addr,profile,segment
promo based - promo appl map, promo_subs_appl_map, promo_subscriber_map

------------------------------------------

oracle architecture
abt the project
revise

Components of db:
Storage
Memory
Processes

Datafiles
Control files
Online redo logs

Datafiles - Tables, indexes, undo segments, temporary files
dba_data_files - datafiles mappped to tablespace

COntrol files - 3 ctrl files - db name, creation date, pathname of all datafile, ckpt info of each datafile
v$control_file - pathname of ctrl file

v$ - dynamic performance files

redo logs - changes to data stored here.
In archivelog mode, when redo logs get filled, the data gets stored in archived redo logs. In nonarchive log mode, it is overwritten

spfile - server parameter file
init file - 
password file -  created using orapwd files

Memory - SGA(shared global area)
database buffer cache - oracle datablock inside it.
DIRT type of files in oracle

DB_CACHE_SIZE, DB_BLOCK_SIZE - each one is 8k

LRU algorithm is applied to database buffer cache and shared pool


SGA - database buffer cache, 
shared pool - library cache,dictionary cache,
java pool 
large pool


library cache - actual text of sql statements and the compiled versions(metacode) and exec plan
v$sql - shows the shared pool
U can flush the database buffer cache and library cache

dictionary cache - contains the name of the objects

shared_pool_size present in spfile

java objects stored in java pool

large pool used for RMAN


DBWR - writes from db buffer cache to datafiles















